
=> Vertical vs Horizontal Scaling
=> Capacity Estimation
=> HTTP vs HTTPS
	HTTP: content without encryption, simple request response cycle. Operates on port 80 by default. Not suitable fpr sensitve data
	HTTPS: HTTP with encryption layer using SSL/TCL certificates. Only person with right key can read the data. 
		   Operates on port 443 by default. preferred by browser for SEO. 
	
			Aspect									HTTP														HTTPS
	Full Form							HyperText Transfer Protocol									HyperText Transfer Protocol Secure
	Port Number								Uses port 80													Uses port 443
	Security						No encryption; data is plain text									Encrypted using SSL/TLS
	Analogy							Like a postcard anyone can read								Like a sealed envelope only the receiver can open
	User Trust						Browsers may show “Not Secure” warning								Shows a padlock icon in the browser
	Performance						Works with HTTP/1.1 (basic speed)								Supports HTTP/2 for faster loading
	SEO Ranking							No ranking advantage										Gets a boost in search engine ranking
	Use Case					Non-sensitive websites like blogs or news pages					Banking, e-commerce, login portals, any sensitive data transfer
=> TCP/IP Protocol
	Application,Transport,Network,Data Link,Physical
=> TCP - Transmission Control Protocol
	Used to deliver static pages like wikipedia or email services. Content sent in small packets, with each packet confirmation is sent back. 
	Tends to be slower. Downloading content is continued even if connection is interrupted.
=> UDP - User Datagram Protocol
	Used for live stream, video games. Does not send confirmation packets, only data. Packets dropped during connection interuption will be lost.

=> Load balancing:
    Distributing load as uniformly as possible among multiple servers, without getting too much load on 
    single server. Hash functions are used to distribute requests. Eg. Using request ID % number of servers
    This simple load balancing is useful for small number of servers. Adding another server causes change
    in almost all of the search space, also does not account for server getting down. Here consistent hashing
    come into the picture.

=> Consistent Hashing:
    Say we have ring of servers and requests between them. Simple algo tells that request should be 
    processed by server next to them clockwise. We hash the requests using hash functions, which randomly
    allocates the request into the ring. Even addition of new server will not affect the whole search space
    Say a server goes down, this case causes a single server to take on load of two servers in theory.
    To counter this we place virtual servers in the ring with multiple hash functions. Each of the server 
    will now have "k" places in the ring. So any server goes down load should be uniformly distributed.
    Ideal number of hash functions "k" is log(n).

=> Message Queue:
    A kind of list which stores tasks that are to be done. It assigns task to a server if server is taking
    too long to respond, assumes that server is dead and assigns to another server. Eliminates duplications
    of tasks. A heartbeat mechanism, for every say 15 seconds notifier sends request to each of the server
    if no response is getting back it means server is dead.

=> Monolith vs Microservice:
    Monolith, a single system serving all clients. This system doesn't need to be a single machine,
    it can be scaled horizontally. Good for small teams, faster as there no external calls all calls
    are internal, lesser duplication of code, easier to develop. More context is required for devs,
    deployments are more complex as everything may fall, single point of failure. StackOverflow uses this.

    Microservice, easier to scale, parallel development is possible, loose coupling,
    easier to deploy as lesser hidden code. A good indicator to see if a microservice should not be a 
    microservice is to see if it is talking to a single service, maybe we can couple them together.
    Needs skilled architects.





